Welcome back.
And in this lesson we're going to look at math and we've already seen what we can do with math.
We're creating random.
We were rounding it down.
So let's show you some more that you can do with math so going to set a variable.
I'm going to call it am and we're going to do math and we're going to.
So we've got a number of options for math and there's quite a few of them there.
So basically if we do math PI this is going to return back into our con..
And I got to do a lot of the math functions within the con..
So we're starting out with a value of m and this is pi.
So we can set the value of pi using math and we also saw with math we can do math floor.
So basically what math floor on em what do you think the the value is going to be here when we do math
floor.
We see that value of n now becomes 3.
We also have even more options so other than floor we've got a number of other ones as well.
And you can see that here that there's just a ton of options here within math.
So most of them they're very useful but unless you're actually doing some math it's not going to be
something that you're going to be using quite often.
There's math around so often times you just need to round numbers.
So this will round it to the lowest or the highest depending on what it is.
And if I'm rounding em what do you think my value is going to be.
And if you said three you're correct.
So we have the ability to random round it to the nearest whole number.
We've also got cieling.
So if we wanted to do math and instead of round we can do ceiling.
So what do you think the value of m is going to be when I do ceiling.
And if you said four you're correct because this round set up to the nearest integer
we can also do math absolute.
So what math absolute does is this gives us the ability to return a positive value.
So sometimes this is useful as well.
When you do end conditions.
So if I have a value and it's negative 5 or negative five point whatever we do abs and basically that
turns it into a positive number so we can return back a numeric value and keep it positive.
We've also got a few other ones as well so there's some math where we can do a square root.
So this is square root.
And basically we can get a square root of a number.
So if we do 100 We know that ten times ten is one hundred.
We can also do the opposite where we do math.
Pow.
So basically this multiplies it to the power of whatever.
So if we want to do 10 to the power of 2 then that returns back 100
so with math it's just important to know that you have the ability to grab numbers and manipulate those
numbers using the built in math object in Javascript.
And now what I want to do is so we've already done this before.
But what I want you to do is pause the video and create a random number anywhere from 1 to 100.
So go ahead and try that out and I'll show you the solution coming up soapie had an opportunity to try
that out and I'll show you the solution.
So this is going to be a random number so we can do random number or just who are our number.
So a random number.
And we want to make it from from 1 to 100.
So this basically means that we can do a random number and we know that when we do floor we round it
down to the closest numbers so we've got.
We round down all those decimal places.
So if we do math seeling that will actually round it up.
So do math the ceiling.
And then in here we do that math random.
So this is the one that we had done before.
So math random.
And then we just need to multiply it by the number that we want to bring it to.
So math random and then multiply by 100.
But because we want a number from from 1 to 100 when we round up.
So if we get ninety nine point whatever one two or whatever we want to round that up.
So that will bring us to 100.
So if we end up with a number of zero dot whatever and we use cieling that will bring us up to 1.
So essentially giving us a random number from 1 to 100.
So you can go out and try the soat so refresh the page and we'll take a closer look and we'll see what
the value of our number is.
So click on that and refresh it and then let's see what's being returned for our number.
So we've got 83 we can do our number again and we need to refresh the page.
So in order to get that random number so are numb.
And now this time it's 6.
So we're getting that random number.
And with math it's just important to understand that there there's a lot of options with math.
Analysts are doing some really heavy duty calculations.
Most the time you're not going to need the math.
Sometimes for graphics you will need it.
So become familiar with what's available within math and then when you do need to use those more complex
mathematical formulas than you've got you know that you got them available in javascript.